One is in the Conan novel you did, Conan the Rebel. I was interested in how you
got involved in writing that on the Conan series. Oh, this was very simple.
One day the telephone rang and I picked it up and there was L. Sprague de Camp at
the other end of the line. He was involved in a project to generate a few more
Conan novels and would I be interested?
Well, I'd always enjoyed Conan and without going into detail I ended up
thinking, what the Dickens, why not do it? I had fun doing it. It didn't pretend
to be literature or anything. It was just a swashbuckler but I enjoyed doing it
and I hope readers have enjoyed reading it. Okay, fine. We would also like to
know about the work you're presently doing. What kinds of books you're working
on now and what kind of future plans for things to write that you have? Well,
it's a little difficult to say. After finishing that Conan book, which I did
almost two years ago, I did practically no writing. I was engaged in other
things until just very recently. So at the moment, I'm in the middle of a novel.
No, not the middle. The early part of the novel. It's going to occupy me for
until the middle of summer at least. It's what my wife calls a kitchen sink
novel. You throw everything in, including the kitchen sink.
And that's really about all I can say about it now. You don't have any kinds of
movie rights on any of your books presently? No, it's merely one that I've
contracted to do. It would be nice if movie rights or something like that sold,
but nothing like that is on the horizon yet. Okay, and my third question would
be, from your standpoint, having written ever since the 1940s and given the huge
amount of your life that you've given to science fiction, in fact you were
president of the Science Fiction Writers of America also. Do you think science
fiction has changed as you look around? As you look around right now, how does
the field of science fiction look to you in contrast to when you started
writing? Oh yes, there have been a great many changes.
Back around 1940 or so, well, practically all you could get unless you hark back
to a few writers like Wells and Verne, practically all you could get was in a
few pulp magazines.
Nowadays, of course, there's an overwhelming flood of it. It is not possible to
read all which appears.
And also, of course, it's no longer disreputable. It's become quite respectable.
You know, when I was your age, it was unthinkable that anybody could arrange a
telephone interview with one of the writers of it under the auspices of a
college, for heaven's sake. Good Lord, this was pulp fiction. It was beyond the
pale. Nowadays, it's being taught in college courses and
all this other stuff, you know.
And it has sort of, but actually all this is kind of trivial. I think the
important thing is that the basic concepts have sort of permeated the public
mind.
I think people are aware nowadays in a way that they never used to be aware that
the future is going to be different from the past. It may be better, it may be
worse, whatever, but it's going to be different and in very fundamental ways.
And they tend to accept this, be prepared for it.
And then also you'll get, well,
if I want, I often say that perhaps the most important public service that
science fiction is doing is by casting a certain glamour over science and technology.
It recruits a lot of young people into these fields and heaven knows we need an awful lot of scientists and technologists.
Okay, that's basically one of the things we do in our class too, is try to get the students to see what science fiction has contributed, you know, toward making people aware of the future.
Very good. Excellent.
Okay, listen, that would probably be a good place to stop.